These two very old people are the father and mother of Mr Bucket. Their names
are Grandpa Joe and Grandma Josephine.
And these two very old people are the father and mother of Mrs Bucket. Their
names are Grandpa George and Grandma Georgina.
This is Mr Bucket. This is Mrs Bucket.
Mr and Mrs Bucket have a small boy whose name is Charlie.
This is Charlie.
How d'you do? And how d'you do? And how d'you do again? He is pleased to
meet you.
The whole of this family — the six grown-ups (count them) and little Charlie
Bucket — live together in a small wooden house on the edge of a great town.
The house wasn't nearly large enough for so many people, and life was extremely
uncomfortable for them all. There were only two rooms in the place altogether, and
there was only one bed. The bed was given to the four old grandparents because
they were so old and tired. They were so tired, they never got out of it.
Grandpa Joe and Grandma Josephine on this side, Grandpa George and
Grandma Georgina on this side.
Mr and Mrs Bucket and little Charlie Bucket slept in the other room, upon
mattresses on the floor.
In the summertime, this wasn't too bad, but in the winter, freezing cold draughts
blew across the floor all night long, and it was awful.
There wasn't any question of them being able to buy a better house — or even
one more bed to sleep in. They were far too poor for that.
Mr Bucket was the only person in the family with a job. He worked in a
toothpaste factory, where he sat all day long at a bench and screwed the little caps
on to the tops of the tubes of toothpaste after the tubes had been filled. But a
toothpaste cap-screwer is never paid very much money, and poor Mr Bucket,
however hard he worked, and however fast he screwed on the caps, was never able
to make enough to buy one half of the things that so large a family needed. There
wasn't even enough money to buy proper food for them all. The only meals they
could afford were bread and margarine for breakfast, boiled potatoes and cabbage
for lunch, and cabbage soup for supper. Sundays were a bit better. They all looked
forward to Sundays because then, although they had exactly the same, everyone was
allowed a second helping.